Guerry Yurovsky can sit down and make a
cute little speech about how all the
insects are his friends
about how he loves the ants and he loves
the bees and he loves the butterflies he
chooses not to mention the cockroaches
of the bedbugs and the majority of the
meat-eaters they're laughing at you as
they know that the fruit and the
vegetables and the grains that you eat
every night are produced by killing
insects and in the future they're still
going to be produced by killing insects
okay so let's get real the truth is
vegans kill insects and in the future
they're going to continue killing
insects and even if he can take over the
government's and create some kind of
vegan dystopia they're still going to be
killing insects and include insects in
your circle of compassion there are
animals - they're creatures so the
question becomes not whether or not
vegans kill insects but whether or not
vegans are honest about it whether or
not veganism as a practical political
ideology is going to be based on lies
deception and holier-than-thou [ __ ]
or based on some kind of realism that's
willing to recognize contradictions of
limitations within the vegan program
there are no contradictions here you
guys are walking contradictions you guys
are walking graveyards of murdered
animals you claim that your holy and
compassionate and then you commit
atrocities and commit evil acts every
single day so everybody who's not vegan
needs to look in the mirror I'm here
responding in part to statements made by
Gary Yourofsky you know Gary Yourofsky
um in an interview he gave to a bite
size vegan she asked a good question and
I feel he gave a very weak and
vacillating answer
well what about bacteria or ants or or
you know other bugs are all beings equal
to each other and
all the insects not the bacteria but he
is in the position of perceiving
weakness as strength she asks about
killing insects and he gives a
meandering speech about how wonderful
and beautiful insects are and how you
should include them in your circle of
compassion but at the very end of the
speech there's another telling detail
where he says somewhat incoherently that
you should not admit of any
inconsistency that meat eaters are
trying to catch vegans and
inconsistencies and veganism has no
inconsistencies I you shouldn't admit
that there are any inconsistencies there
are no contradictions here why not admit
that contradictions exist within
veganism I'm gonna briefly digress to
its use of parallelism I had a
girlfriend who was a longtime feminist
she had organized feminist clubs and
study feminism University and what have
you and you know I got together with her
at the very beginning of my period of
being a Buddhist intellectual being
involved with scholarly historical study
of tera vaada Buddhism if you've watched
my channel for a while you know I was
not a superstitious Buddhist I was a
very down-to-earth Buddhist now I'm very
down-to-earth vegan but I remember I
made a conscious decision when I first
got involved in Buddhism I am not gonna
lie about contradictions inequalities
and shortcomings in Buddhism I am NOT
gonna be for Buddhism what you know
Christian preachers are for Christianity
I am going to keep it real I am gonna
give it to you raw and this girlfriend
of mine was right at the beginning of
relationship she said to me basically
but isn't it true that the status of
women in Buddhist countries is terrible
like you know that they're oppressed
they're a bad situation compared to
Western Europe presumably implicitly
compared to some Western standard and
you know the first thing I said to her
was the most important thing so they
looked her straight in the eye and I
said to her honestly
everywhere you go it's a struggle if
we're talking about
status of women everywhere you go it's a
struggle and then she was listening and
she respected what I was gonna say next
because she knew I wasn't gonna [ __ ]
her she knew I wasn't an apologist you
know wasn't making excuses she knew I
was gonna face up to the limitations
shortcomings I said to her the status of
women in Buddhism is bad however it's
better in Buddhism than it is in
Hinduism and it's better in Hinduism
than it is in Islam this is true Cimino
if you're looking at Sri Lanka India
Pakistan Afghanistan basically the
furthest south in the most Buddhist
society is where women have the best
status then as you go north the more
Muslim it gets the more Hindu it gets
the worse the status of of women is in
those societies Southeast Asia there are
also contrasts status of women in
Thailand as opposed to Malaysia
Indonesia Muslim villagers this is only
a parallelism my point is my opinion
would have been worth nothing if it
didn't start with that fundamental
commitment to deal ism all right and the
same is true for us as vegans what
credibility do you have if your approach
is to claim that all insects are part of
your circle of compassion gary
yourofsky's term what food do you
actually think you can produce with no
use of pesticides and no killing of
insects or other animals in the farming
process none I'm not going to go off
your into examples of how agricultural
actually works in the real world either
interested or you're not in general
where you've got large plots producing
organic agriculture fourthly they're
still killing insects just using other
methods still killing animals you know
you think you can have an orchard full
of mangoes and animals won't come to to
eat it
you
or any other fruit crop what-have-you
all of those things are sustained by a
form of constant ongoing low-level
violence against nature so that the
orchard doesn't revert into a jungle so
that it doesn't revert into a forest and
you do that by killing other plants and
by killing other animals and by killing
insects and that is the process of
farming and even when you mix up the
plots and say okay these three
mountaintops we're gonna try to keep
organic you keep them organic until
there's an outbreak of insects then you
spray it with pesticides and then for
the next few years
well the infestation goes away those
mountaintops that at the outbreak they
become your non-organic crops you try to
cycle it you try to have some of the
other land go from conventional organic
that's also where the certification is
all based on a number of years
something certified organic it means
they haven't used pesticides and a few
other types of chemicals on that land
only for a certain number of years and
that's even if the certification process
is not crooked I myself of the
humanitarian work linked to agriculture
and indeed involved with this issue of
pesticides video would be too long if I
talked about stories where I really know
I did I did do research on how these
things work obviously not in every crop
on earth some of you may send me mail
with exceptions if so fabulous I'm so
happy
if you've come up with an exception to
the rule but the rule is yes
vegans kill insects now and in order to
produce fruit cereals grains any of the
crops human beings need to survive we're
gonna keep on killing insects in the
future even if the future actually were
a vegan utopia a vegan dystopia a vegan
government fill in the blank a vegan
majority would still be killing insects
spiders and I for those that know me
well
they terrify me more than anything I
think there's only two things in hell
fire and spiders but that doesn't mean
that I kill them I do not kill spiders
the hard limit and that my heart goes
out to you a lot of people watching this
video will have already experienced this
others of you will experience in the
future the hard limit if you think
you're not with me if you think you're
against me is bedbugs if you have an
experience the horror that is urban
bedbugs man I hope you never do I hope
in your whole life you never experience
that but I mean if you are a vegan in
gary yourofsky's mold if you think that
insects are in your circle of compassion
if you think you never have to kill a
fly a bedbug infestation will make a
hypocrite out of you and me I'm a vegan
but I'm not a hypocrite because I'm
willing to admit the limitations I'm
willing to admit the contradictions and
when you do that it's not a weakness
it's a strength people will respect you
more people will take you more seriously
people will regard your advice in your
perspective as balanced as down-to-earth
as reflecting reality and man I'm not
saying killing bed bugs is good I'm not
even saying it's normal or it's okay
it may be tragic it may be sad but it is
inevitable as for insects
I dig most insects umm I don't kill any
why lie about it and why tell the truth
well I don't know what what credibility
do you think we have so go saying before
about Buddhism do you want to be
regarded as a cult flunky or do you want
to be regarded as a respected scholar
when I was involved in Buddhism I I
didn't for a time I didn't want to even
be regarded as secular you know now
identify as an ayah a historical
nihilism is what I lend my name to if I
feel that lend my name to anything but
at the time at a long period where I
wouldn't even say I was a secular
scholar where I would say I was a
Buddhist scholar but what is your
credibility rest on a certain type of
detachment a certain type of honesty
that you're willing to talk about slave
every in the history of Buddhism when
there's slavery Buddhism does have a say
history of slavery a lot of people lie
to you about it that you're going to
talk about poverty or the oppression of
women or any of those other things in a
real way that you're not a preacher that
you're not a religious maniac that
you're not distorting the history of the
world in order to flatter your case as
an ideologue that's what's crucial um
and look man it's no joke before I use
the example of cockroaches I'm gonna
give a link below this video to my
earlier discussion of the fact that
vegans do kill cockroaches in the future
we're still gonna kill cockroaches so
the only question is for a guy like Gary
Yourofsky why do you want to lie about
it and what credibility do you have
afterwards after you've gone around the
world
lying in people's faces about it and
pretending we have a circle of
compassion and we don't need to kill
cockroaches and we don't need to kill
insects to grow crops either veganism is
something actionable something
implementable something practicable or
you're dumbing it down lying to yourself
lying to others and spreading these
vague hippie myths that make it into a
laughingstock precisely because it's not
actionable it's not a minimal fact our
backyard right now is full of
grasshoppers and crickets in fact this
morning when I left Detroit there was a
grasshopper I swear this big on the
garage and Eric and I were out there and
we would just face-to-face and all for
about 15 minutes looking at this
beautiful creature I was together with
my wife who is now my ex-wife we were in
an apartment she was pregnant and the
apartment building had a bedbug
infestation not my fault not anybody's
fault the whole apartment building had a
bedbug infestation it was terrible and I
did my homework I looked into what the
chemical being used was to spray the
building guess what
it could cause birth defects it could
cause harm to the baby we had to go out
and check into a hotel for three nights
at a time have all the windows open in
the apartment have the cold wind coming
off the Saskatchewan Prairie blowing
through that apartment and we as a call
our belonging
and put them into a bag and we had
absolutely no choice all right there is
no nonviolent way to get rid of bedbugs
there is no nonviolent way to live with
bedbugs gary Yurovsky can sit down and
make a cute little speech about how all
the insects are his friends about how he
loves the ants and he loves the bees and
he loves the butterflies he chooses not
to mention the cockroaches of the
bedbugs he chooses to pretend that
contradiction and paradox only exists in
the meteor side and the majority of the
meat-eaters they're laughing at you
because they know that the fruit and the
vegetables and the grains that you eat
every night are produced by killing
insects and in the future they're still
going to be produced by killing insects
okay so let's get real for me
fundamentally veganism is so positive
because it's about the changes that you
can make politics is the art of the
possible the first thing you need to
communicate to people is I'm here to do
something positive and I'm here to work
with what we've got and I'm here to do
what's possible religion is about the
impossible it's about promising people
paradise heaven the afterlife Nirvana
impossible things for a low low price
and in that sense I do not want veganism
to ever become a religion I want
veganism to be a program of action that
motivates us to get out and make a real
change right now untold millions of cows
sheep pigs living their whole lives in a
concrete floor in a metal cage primates
in laboratories being tortured to death
so that scientists can invent a slightly
redder shade of lipstick
right the weight and the agony of all of
that is on my shoulders okay but we're
not going to make progress by pretending
to be morally pure we're gonna make
progress of rolling up our sleeves
making the necessary compromises and
meeting the limitations and
contradictions within the principles
that we are sincerely committed to